MSC3060: Room labels (#3060)
matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals: proposals/3060-room-labels.md

name is usually expected to be very short and isn't always very descriptive, and
a room's topic is usually where one would find related social media accounts or
the room's rules/code of conduct).

On top of that, room names and topics are expected to be human-readable, which
makes it difficult to use them for automation. One example of necessary
automation that client developers might want to implement would be to filter out
rooms allowing or dedicated to NSFW (Not Safe For Work, i.e. erotic or
pornographic) content from the public room directory. Apple actually requires
any application to be able to filter out such content in order to be accepted on
their App Store.

## Proposal

### `m.room.labels` state event

A new state event is defined, with the type `m.room.labels`. Its content
includes an array of freeform strings used to describe the room and its
discussions:

```json
{
  "type": "m.room.labels",
  "content": {
    "labels": [
      "archlinux",
      "linux",
      "support",
    ]
  },
  [...]
}
```

A label is expected to be fairly short, and to designate only one concept,
therefore each label is limited in size to 35 characters and can contain only

> one word (a word being defined as a string containing any character except for a

Reviewer: What is the purpose of the "one word" restriction? How does it apply to languages that don't separate words with spaces? What about other whitespace characters?

> A label is expected to be fairly short, and to designate only one concept,
> therefore each label is limited in size to 35 characters and can contain only
> one word (a word being defined as a string containing any character except for a
> space (` `)).
> 
> As a sidenote for context, the length of 35 characters is based on the allowed
> length for a topic on a GitHub repository (since the semantics of GitHub topics
> are very similar to the ones described here).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A label is expected to be fairly short, and to designate only one concept.
Client behaviour is undefined for labels that are longer than 35 characters
and/or contain whitespace in the label.

As a sidenote for context, the length of 35 characters is based on the allowed
length for a topic on a GitHub repository (since the semantics of GitHub topics
are very similar to the ones described here).
```

Author: The issue with not setting a limit is that it then becomes an abuse vector, like e.g. display names can be (we've had issues in the past where you could set your display name as a very long string of characters and flood the room's history, or create DoSs in some clients). I believe servers need to enforce a limit of some kind (otherwise it just opens the door to issues), and that the discussion should be on what this limit should be (35 is kinda arbitrary and, as mentioned in the MSC, based on the maximum length of github's equivalent feature, but one can argue github was built for the english language, so this kind of considerations might not have been taken into account), rather than whether we need a limit at all.

Reviewer: If the intention simply is to avoid DOS attacks, then set the limit as high as possible without degrading performance. I mean, much higher than anybody would need in a "normal" use case.

Somewhat related: I don't think that "character" is a concept common to all languages, and one that is defined in the Unicode standard. Please use a string length metric that is well-defined and works around the world.

Reviewer 2: > Please use a string length metric that is well-defined and works around the world.

Bytes? Codewords? Code units? Code points? Grapheme clusters? Glyph units?

Reviewer 3: I would recommend UTF-8 bytes so it is easy fro computers and make it sufficiently long (64 or 128) that it is rare to bother humans while still being trivial for servwra and other users to handle.

Room labels appear in responses to `/publicRooms` requests, alongside other
metadata for the room (member count, name, address, etc.).

### `m.nsfw` room label

A label is also defined, `m.nsfw`. Room admins must use this label to express
that they're open to NSFW content being shared in the room. Clients can use this
label to filter rooms allowing NSFW content out of the room list if needed or
desired.

Clients must display all room labels as defined, except for `m.nsfw`, which can

> also be displayed as the string `nsfw` or any case variant.

Reviewer 3: The prefix seems odd here. To me we should do one of two things:

1. Publish a list of unprefixed well-understood labels including nsfw.
2. Put user labels in a different namespace. (For example `u.technology`)

It seems like this is basically the worst of both worlds because we didn't reserve any namespace, but also added a requirement to format standardized labels differently from all the rest.

Reviewer: Is there any reason to have a namespace for user labels at all? It feels to me like having a name space for Hashtags

Reviewer 3: I think the logic is that so if we add new "well-known" labels then they won't clobber user labels which may have been used for different meanings. They also degrade nicely if you add a rule that says "Unknown `m.*` labels should be displayed as the equivalent `u.*` label would"

However overall I think this isn't necessary, we can just have a list of well know that is updatable over time. These well-known labels can be suggested by clients and translated as appropriate.

Reviewer 4: Who would be responsible for curating that set of well-known labels, and what would be the process for someone to get a label promoted to it? If a "namespaced" user label were promoted to well-known (i.e. `m.`), wouldn't rooms need to switch to using the well-known one to get special client behavior like the translations example?

I think the practical use-case of an `nsfw` marker on rooms probably goes beyond the more generalized idea of labels, given the App Store policy requirement example. I'm personally unable to think of any other "well-known" labels which would warrant specific client behavior.
